# Genetic Playground

Having been inspired by a paper ([*Genetic Algorithms* by John H. Holland](http://www2.econ.iastate.edu/tesfatsi/holland.GAIntro.htm)), I'm going to try my hand at this.

**Goal:** A personal (toy, for now) framework which can solve problems using a Genetic Programming approach, as described in the paper above.

**Status:** Currently it demonstrates the use of Genetic Algorithms to learn effective stragegies for the game [Prisoner's Dilemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner%27s_dilemma). I have tried to make the interface clear but it is just a temporary placeholder for something with more visualization. What it shows is that within a relatively short amount of generations, a small-ish gene pool (say of 8k) will hone in on optimal strategies for a game with a whopping 2^84 binary decision space; often exploring far, far less than 1% of this search space to do so before reaching an equilibrium when using games within the pool (and only within the pool) as the "selective pressure". I have heavily commented the source code and made it pretty easy for anyone who wants to tweak the values or try selecting for other pressures in order to see how that changes things. An important difference between this version and the one from the paper is that the one from the paper only mentions a 64-bit search space and leaves it to the reader to determine how to handle the first 3 turns of gameplay. I decided to make them separate bits, so it is an 84-bit string instead of a 64-bit one. Although I am not a math expert or a computer science expert, I believe this reproduces the part of the paper which talks about Prisoner's Dilemma. Next up, I would like to abstract this out and improve the UI a bit so that I can explore other problems in game theory and some other simulations using the same technique. There's always a chance I've made an error somewhere, and anyone who finds one is welcome to let me know. I will update this as I make improvements to it or discover any errors.